MSX Driver
----------

The MSX driver is very preliminary. Disk drive emulation doesn't work properly
for example, and memory emulation isn't very good either. Various MSX1 models
are emulated, and there is preliminary MSX2 support through the msx2 and msx2j
driver.

The required bios dumps are available at:

	http://www.file-hunter.com/


Cartridges
----------
The ROM mapper (which is specified with -rom x in fMSX) is autodetected but
isn't perfect. So you should also install the crc files, which can be 
downloaded from the official mess site. With the CRC files, cartridges with
SRAM or a DAC (like Synthesizer or Majutsushi from Konami) are detected
properly.


Tape emulation
--------------
Tape emulation is done via .wav files; the actual sound the MSX produces
is recorded / played back, making tape emulation more authentic. Because of
this, you can record your existing tapes to .wav and play them in MESS. Make
sure your record them at high quality (44100Hz, 16 bit and mono).

.cas files are also supported but they're converted to sound by the driver
on startup. There is no support for writing .cas files.

While recording or playback you can hear the sound through the sound card
of your computer. You can control the volume by pressing <SCROLL LOCK> and
<~>. 


Memmory Emulation
-----------------
The memory map is from a standard MSX1; there are no subslots, nor memmory
mappers for RAM. RAM is 64Kb in slot 3, and slot 1 and 2 are where the 
cartridges end up.


Sound emulation
---------------
The PSG, PPI (key click), SCC are emulated. The SCC isn't perfect yet, you
can hear slight inperfections in King's Valley 2 (when you through the knife),
F1 Spirit (when you start a race), Solid Snake (when you get to building 3).
The SCC is called `k051649' in the volume menu.

The FM-PAC is also emulated for which you need the ROM dump of an original
Panasonic FM-PAC. However the sound emulation isn't very good at all. :/

The following DACs are emulated: SIMPLE, Konami's Synthesizer, Konami's
Majutsushi. The keyclick is also done through the DAC.

You can control the volumes by pressing <SCROLL LOCK> (so you go to UI
mode) and then <~>. Press <UP> and <DOWN> to see different sound chips, and
<LEFT> and <RIGHT> to change the volume.


Video emulation
---------------
The tms9928a (MSX1) emulation is very good, but doesn't emulate changes while
the screen is being drawn to the screen. 

The v9938 emulation is preliminary and has problems with sprite mode 2 (MSX2
games), interlaced mode, graphic engine emulation, timing (Zanac Ex doesn't
run correctly and Aleste only runs in the Japanese version of the driver).
Also the PAL/NTSC (50/60Hz) switch is an evil hack, the actual refresh rate
of the screen isn't changed.

Also it's not very well optimised, I'll start optimising as soons as it
works alright. 

The v9958 isn't emulated at all. 


Printer port
------------
The printer port is emulated; output to the port is saved to disk. However
no emulation/translation is done, so the data is raw. 


MSX2 RTC
--------
The real-time clock, which keeps information like the time and date, isn't
emulated very well at all. Time doesn't change, and settings aren't saved
to disk. 


